
# **rivt** User Manual

<hr>

## [FAQ and Definitions](terms.md)

<hr> 

### [organize](organize.md), [modify](modify.md), [publish](publish.md) engineering documents and templates

<hr>

### Why **rivt**?

Calculations and drawings are detailed road maps. Their clarity and
completeness affect cost, quality and timeliness of built projects.
[rivt](terms.md#rivt) is a software tool designed to improve engineering
documents by applying open source software principles. These principles provide
engineering professions an opportunity to produce largre, reusable calculation
libraries that evolve and improve in clarity and completeness over time.

Because many 21st century engineering technologies are changing slowly, design
methods may see little or no change for decades. Productive engineering work
now lies, not so much in technological innovation, but in understanding and
combining various established design methodologies and technologies to the
needs of a particular project.

Engineering documents are the mechanism for working out successful
combinations. If universal "cut and paste" editing of large libraries of
existing documents becomes possible, including:

- explanatory text
- images
- formulas
- calculations
- plots
- tabulated data 

engineers could explore more options, accelerate convergence on effective
design solutions, and explore unfamiliar technologies more efficiently. As
document contributions accumulate, quality and breadth would evolve rapidly.

Engineering calculation programs are widely available but they include barriers
to sharing and reuse (see table). In general they are incompatible with each
other, have high initial and continuing upgrade costs, and their reporting and
version control features are limited.

As a result, nearly identical engineering documents are repeatedly written
simply because resuable documents and templates were unavailable. **rivt** was
developed to promote profession-wide document development and reuse.

```{figure} _static/img/table1.png
:scale: 100 %
figwidth: image
:alt: Comparative Table of Engineering Calculation Programs

Comparative Table of Engineering Calculation Programs
```

**rivt** uses the [MIT open source license](https://opensource.org/license/mit/)

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 3
:hidden:
organize
modify
publish
install
```
